## Overview
Use this lab to verify your development environment.  Take the time to explore the IDE and the build and run process.  If you have any problems, please ask for help.


| | |
| --------- | --------------------------- |
| Exercise Folder | FirstLab |
| Builds On | None |
| Time to complete | 30 minutes |

---

### Visual Studio Community (Professional or Enterprise) 2022

- Start Visual Studio 2022 (or choose *File | New | Project* if Visual Studio is already running).
- Set the language filter to C++ and the project type filter to Console.
- Select the **Console App** template and click **Next**.
- Name the project **FirstLab**, the solution **Labs** and choose a root folder for your solution (optional) and click **Create**.
- This creates a simple *Hello World* application. Press **F5** (or the play button on the toolbar) to build and run the application.  Note that the console window may open behind Visual Studio.
- Open the project properties (right-click on the project in the Solution Explorer and choose **Properties**).
- Change the C++ Version to **ISO C++20 Standard (/std:c++20)**.
- Rebuild and run the application again.

### Visual Studio Code

- Create a new folder for your project.
- Launch Visual Studio Code and open the folder you just created. (type code . from the command line)
- Create a new file called **main.cpp** and add the following code:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello World!" << std::endl;
    return 0;
}
```

- Click the **Run** button on the upper right of the editor window.  This will build and run the application.  
- The first time you run the application, you will be prompted to configure the build.  Choose **g++ build and debug active file**.
- The application will run in the integrated terminal window at the bottom of the editor window. (**Terminal**).

- After a successful build and run, you should have a *tasks.json* file in your .vscode folder.  This file contains the build and run configuration for your project.  You can edit this file to change the build and run options for your project.

- Below, reference the *tasks.json* file we use for the labs. this configuration builds all the .cpp files in the current folder and creates an executable with the same name as the folder.  You can copy this file to your project .vscode folder and use it to build and run your project.  You may need to change the path to the g++ compiler.
- By default, .exe files are not shown in the Explorer window.  

```json
{
    "tasks": [
        {
            "type": "cppbuild",
            "label": "C/C++: g++ build active file",
            "command": "/usr/bin/g++",
            "args": [
                "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
                "-g",                
                "-std=c++20",
                "*.cpp",
                "-o",
                "${fileDirname}/${fileDirnameBasename}.exe"
            ],
            "options": {
                "cwd": "${fileDirname}"
            },
            "problemMatcher": [
                "$gcc"
            ],
            "group": {
                "kind": "build",
                "isDefault": true
            },
            "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
        }
    ],
    "version": "2.0.0"
}
```
